---
layout: page
title: CS143
permalink: /CS143
---
Computer networking has enabled the emergence of mobile and cloud computing, creating two of the most important technological breakthroughs in computing of the past decade.  We expect three major focuses in the next ten years. First, we will witness the emergence of 5G wireless mobile networks, which will begin to replace the current 4G networks as early as 2020. Second, cyber security will receive unprecedented attention from industry. Third, blockchain technology, which has powered Bitcoin, is creating a new trusted network infrastructure that will allow information to be distributed but not copied.  While these areas are each rich in intellectual content on their own, they will also interplay with one other, creating interesting opportunities for those versed in all three.  In order to play a role in this era of network-based computing, students must have a thorough understanding of these networking technologies and applications. Beyond teaching the basic networking protocols, which have become very mature and can be treated as a black box, in CS 143, we will teach new networking issues and topics of significance. This focus on upcoming wireless, network security, and blockchain advancements is the motivation for CS 143 this semester.  Students in the course will read and discuss basic material as well as the latest literature, work on homework assignments, gain hands-on experience through network programming, and have the opportunity to present the concepts and insights learned through a final project.